So Djala API and how they are arranged in two packages Next to know is how do we access the classes
in those packages so that we can use them in our own classes.
It's not just about standard Java API or some third party API but almost all projects will generally
include one or more packages unless we are writing some really small programs.
So we need to know how to access classes and packages.
And that's what we're going to learn now.
At the end of the lesson there'll also be a demo of most of the stuff we have learned in this lesson
.
It is very common for classes within the package to access other classes in the same package in such
cases classes can directly reference those other classes by just using their class names.
But if we have to access a class from a different package then there are two ways to do it.
Firstborn is by using an import statement.
And second is by using a fully qualified blastin a fully qualified class name is nothing with the package
name followed by a dot which is then followed by the class name.
Normally we always use an import statement.
But there are certain special scenarios where you may have to use the fully qualified class name in
this lesson apart from looking at importunate men.
We will also look at the scenarios when we would have to use fully qualified Glaston also know that
these methods are used regardless of whether or not the package belongs to an external API that is even
if a package was written by us in our own project we would still use these methods to access the classes
in that package.
Hustle let's look at import statement using a simple example.
Let we look at the fully qualified placename approach.
Let's say we want to use a class called idlest which is part of the job Rodarte you do package this
we can use an import statement as shown here.
That is a statement involves the key word import followed by a fully qualified name of the class which
is most a package name Jawad article followed by a dot which is then followed by the class name.
Idlest this informs the compiler that we want to use the class ironist from the package.
Tarkington.
Not that the statement must be at the top of the class outside the class definition having it inside
a class definition or after class definition is invalid.
So once we have the import statement in place we can use our list anywhere in the class as you can see
we are creating an idealist object that in the method foo had we not included the import statement this
statement would have given a compiler error.
In the example we just saw re-imported a single class called ironist from the package Jawad Arterton
the import statement used is referred to as an explicit import which is also referred to as single type
import single type imports such as that we are importing a single type and that type can be either a
class or an interface.
An interface that will be discussed later but often you also put multiple courses from the same package
.
In that case there are two options.
One is of course to have an explicit import statement for each class to be imported.
The second option is to use something called starting work which is also referred to as input on demand
.
Get started work start import you would simply include an asterisk following the package.
And this will import all the classes in the package in this example all the classes in Java that do
package are imported on Hence the class having the statement can use any of those classes so start import
a shortcut for importing multiple classes as you were having just a single import statement instead
of a separate explicit import statement for each class that you want to import.
If you're familiar with SU Well you know that we use select start statement to fetch all the data in
that table.
So use of stored in this case is analogous to that as we are importing all the classes in a package
splatters multiple classes from the same package we need to use either start import or expensive imports
.
So one question would be Is there any recommendation among the two options one issue it's not important
that it can break your record in future.
Let's look at an example.
Here we're doing a star import on book jot or tittle and our school packages.
And we're also using a date us nobody out there to tell Angella that the school have their day class
.
But for the sake of this discussion let's just assume that when this was written only to tell her that
that class so the class that we are seeing here would come from Jowler that you didn't package we can
assume that this court also uses some other classes from Jawa not a secure package.
And that is for the sake of just it's port not it's after a year or so it did.
Classes introduced in dowered obscure package.
Let's say it was introduced in a newer version of July IPA Nova that when we re compiled this could
we get a compiler at all places where data is used that's because compiler is confused as to which declasse
to use that is whether it has to use the Washington Gelada do art of motion and Jawa not a screen but
using explicit import for the did class in general that Rudel package how can you go into this situation
.
That it's adding that the SBA wouldn't have had any effect at all.
But this is most likely a pretty corner Nargis that at one stage of explicit import is that it adds
more clarity that is just by looking at the import statements.
One can tell what courses are being used in that class but start imports.
This will be a very tedious task as you would have to skandha and darkness although there is no strict
consensus most people seem to prefer explicit imports for the above two reasons.
Personally I also prefer explicit inboards as I mentioned earlier an alternate doable using an import
statement is to use a fully qualified name of the class that is you would have to do this to create
an artist or object.
So the fully qualified name includes the package name and we are using it on either side of the assignment
.
And that's just plain cumbersome.
So it is obvious that we should use an import statement however there can be scenarios where you would
be forced to use a fully qualified name.
For example let's say we want to use both jot or tittle Dogget that I enjoy or killed or dead in the
same class.
This is a fairly uncommon scenario.
But in this case you would have to use a fully qualified name for at least one of the classes there
are solutions for this case.
And if you're both of them in fossilisation you can use only one explicit Imber.
And here is an example we are explicitly importing.
You do.
So when we did class by simple name as in the first statement here then it would reference Jawa taught
you to dog.
The second statement is using a fully qualified name no fee I start in part on job at a school then
the first statement would still reference dollar that you did.
So basically using a simple name of the class will always reference the class from the explicit import
so explicit import ex-president's or start import in such a scenario.
Just note that in this example we have only two classes but even if there were say mandate classes and
10 different packages and we want to use all of them in the same class then we can only explicitly import
one of them and for the rest mind you don't have to use them using their fully qualified names.
In the second solution we will use fully qualified names for broader classes.
Also I start important Jowler daughter tell Angela that as good as it will not make any difference we
still have to use fully qualified names as the compiler would simply be confused if he is simple names
for the day class.
Not that we cannot do this it will give us a compiler it makes sense because if this was allowed you
would have to still use fully qualified names wherever data is used.
So the only option is to use one of the two solutions we just discussed.
That is just at least one explicit import or use only fully qualified means next is a question on whether
there are any side effects in using import statements.
An answer is No.
You can have as many important statements as you want and you may never even use those classes and it
will not have any ethnic import statement doesn't make your classes bigger.
That is it is not going to import the byte code of the import at us so that's not going to happen.
Similarly an import statement does not affect that runtime performance do it simply saves you from typing
the fully qualified name of the class.
However on your compiler core the compiler replaces the simple class names with the corresponding fully
qualified names just not a dollar or two line package which includes classes fundamental to Java is
imported by default.
So you don't have to explicitly import any of the classes in this package.
You can directly access them finally let's do some of the stuff we just learned.
No new methods or ideas for this demo.
We just try all different scenarios and that would be good.
So let's get started with demo OK here we are in the basics class.
Let's create a variable called debt off beat.
So this is from the job interview deal package and if you compile it says cannot find the similar date
so the compiler is unable to define this class called did that because we did not import declasse.
So let's put an import statement here that said jobs are not so you are telling the compiler to import
the class from the job or to do package
but it still gives a compiler.
And that's because this statement has been please derk wrong position.
So right now it is within the definition of class but it needs to be on top of the class definition
or here cannot be inside or after class definition.
Get more so that's an import statement.
Now let's try starting point.
That will come into play if we want to import multiple classes from the same package.
So let's just go ahead and
import our A-list from the same job or you do package and this would also give a competitor because
idlest has to be imported.
So let's go scroll up and make this start in quarter and we are good now game so no matter art the second
approach me said was how explicit import for both of them
a good read that also and this is the most preferred approach for -- most of the developers so it's
preferred over starting work.
OK.
So that's about import statements and that's the first way to use classes to access classes from differ
from other packages.
And we said the second way was to use fully qualified class needs.
So let's try that also.
So let me just comment that out and here let me create a new object of the class so to use fully qualified
name that's it.
Now combine this so it just cannot find symbole dude.
So that's because of the fully qualified name has been used only on one side of the assignment or not
on the other side.
OK so it shows the error on the left side or here.
So we need to use on either side.
A Navi or good so that's the second approach.
But we should use the first approach.
The very are using an important element so that we can directly use we can use just a simple name of
the class.
But here if not we will have to use the entire package name on that's just plain cumbersome and we have
to use every where where the classes used.
So that's cumbersome.
So that's.
So we shouldn't be using fully qualified names.
But we said that we will have to use fully qualified names in certain scenarios and the scenario was
that if you want to use a class with the same name for multiple packages then you don't have a choice
but to use at least one fully qualified class name.
OK so let's just try out that example too.
So let's make this back to date
and if you remember the second one was from Joffe-Block I got a school does it's called or test date
too.
So we want to use that date class from both the packages.
So one of them is a fully qualified name and here for the other one we are using an exploit an explicit
import.
So there is one explicit import on one fully qualified class name students compile this Henri are gone
.
So you said this is one of the approaches.
Right.
So one of them is an explicit import.
So this particular bit is referencing is referencing the date and the arguably package.
And this is unexpressed important.
So that's one of the solutions and the second one is to use fully qualified names for both of them so
we can just read more.
Gus
we are good.
OK.
And the only thing we cannot do is
me said We cannot how you can do this we cannot import.
But it did cost us explicitly
you see.
I notice a type with the same simple name is already defined by the single pipe import of data.
So the error is here in the second in the second line of type with the same simple name is already defined
by a single type import which means that you are already importing a class with the same name.
So you can do it again because when we do this we are making a deliberate statement that somewhere in
the class that the class will be used.
OK.
So the compiler does not allow that.
Even if you don't use these classes anywhere and if you just how only the importunate mess you still
will get that error.
So we just call him or not it out and we still get the same error.
So you can do that.
So that's about it.
That's smart.
That's all we saw in this lesson.
So you can we both explicitly import On-Star imports and we need them to access classes from some packages
.
And we also say that there are no side effects of having this import statements.
So that's one thing we also search.
So it's not going to having these statements will not make your classified larger.
So we discuss that.
So that's important.
That's a broader important statement.
And thank you and happy courting